CONNECT-RIGHT : a video conferencing platform

Socket: this is one end of a connection. every machine on a network has ports which and ip addresses for communication 
socket is the combination of the ip address and the port for the connected machine 

Protocols: these are the rules for communication 

TCP (transmission control protocol) : 
TCP is a connection-oriented and reliable protocol,
meaning it establishes a connection before sending data and ensures that all packets arrive in the correct order without loss.
TCP is used in applications like web browsing (HTTP/HTTPS) and file transfers (FTP) where accuracy and reliability are crucial

UDP (user datagram protocol) : 
UDP is a connectionless and unreliable protocol, which simply sends data without establishing a connection and does not guarantee delivery or order.
UDP is used in online gaming, video streaming, and VoIP calls, where speed and low latency are more important than perfect reliability.

WebRTC protocol 
Web real time communication, used for real time communication, built on UDP protocol 
this is a bi-directional protol, 

working of web rtc 

1. Signalling

Before two peers can communicate, they must exchange information about how to connect. This includes:
Session Description Protocol (SDP) – describes media formats, codecs, and network details.
ICE candidates – possible network paths (IP addresses and ports).
Signalling channel – WebRTC doesn’t define this; developers use WebSocket, HTTP, or Socket.io for exchanging SDP and ICE candidates between peers via a signalling server.

2. Connecting (NAT Traversal & Peer-to-Peer)

Once peers know about each other, they must establish a direct path:
STUN (Session Traversal Utilities for NAT) – helps peers discover their public IP and port behind a NAT.
TURN (Traversal Using Relays around NAT) – if direct connection fails, peers use a relay server to pass traffic.
ICE (Interactive Connectivity Establishment) – chooses the best path (direct if possible, otherwise relay).

3. Securing 

Security is built-in:
DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security) – encrypts data channels.
SRTP (Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol) – encrypts audio and video streams.
End-to-end encryption ensures that only the peers can access the media/data, preventing eavesdropping.

4. Communicating 

After connection and security are established, real-time communication begins:
Media Streams – audio/video is sent using RTP (Real-time Transport Protocol) over SRTP.
Data Channel – a peer-to-peer channel for arbitrary data (chat, file transfer, game state sync).
Adaptive techniques like jitter buffering, error correction, and bandwidth estimation keep communication smooth.

webRTC is available as a API 

1. MediaStream 
2. RTCPeerConnection 
3. RTCDataChannel

WebRTC architecture

1. P2P (Peer-to-Peer)
How it works: Every participant sends their media stream directly to every other participant.

Pros:
Low latency (direct connection).
No server cost for relaying media.
Cons:
Does not scale well — in a call with N users, each must send (N-1) streams.
High CPU and bandwidth usage on clients.

Use case: 1-to-1 video calls or very small group calls (2–3 people).

2. SFU (Selective Forwarding Unit)
How it works: Each participant sends one uplink stream to the SFU server. The SFU forwards streams to other participants without decoding them.

Pros:
More scalable (clients upload only once).
Lower CPU/bandwidth use for participants.
Still low latency, since the server doesn’t process media.
Cons:
Bandwidth still grows as the number of participants increases (each client receives multiple streams).

Use case: Group video conferencing (Zoom, Google Meet, Jitsi, etc.)

3. MCU (Multipoint Conferencing Unit)
How it works: Each participant sends their stream to the MCU server. The MCU decodes, mixes, and re-encodes streams into a single combined stream and sends it back to clients.

Pros:
Each participant only needs to receive one downlink stream.
Very efficient for clients with limited bandwidth or devices.
Cons:
High server cost (CPU-intensive to mix streams).
Adds latency because of processing.

Use case: Enterprise conferencing, recording, or broadcasting (e.g., a “presenter + audience” model).

* on the internet upload bandwidth has a strict limit, the download bandwidth is lineant 

Frameworks : 

Frontend : React + MaterialUi + CSS
Backend : node + express + bcrypt + ScoketIo 
Database : MongoDB , change to SQL database in production 

1. Backend setup 

- Create a folder in the base repo 
- npm init -y 
- tsc --init 
- create src/server.ts 
- npm i express @types/express cors mongoose bcrypt socketio
- tsconfig, rootDir : "./src" , outDir: "./dist"
- add gitignore
- write the dev script "npx tsc -b && node dist/index.js"

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Creating the socket and http instance 
- create a src folder and create index.ts and then three folders for route, controller, models
- create a http server and attach it to the socket io in index.ts 
- create the socket io contoller wrapper in the controller folder  
- connect the mongo db 
- add the middlewares and also limit the payload
- start the instance 
